federalist 18 the same subject continued
the insufficiency of the present
confederation to preserve the union
for the independent journal hamilton and
madison
to the people of the state of new york
among the confederacies of antiquity the
most considerable was that of the
grecian republics
associated under the amphitheanic
council from the best accounts
transmitted of this celebrated
institution
it bore a very instructive analogy to
the present confederation of the
american states
the members retained the character of
independent and sovereign states and had
equal votes in the federal council
this council had a general authority to
propose and resolve whatever a judge
necessary for the common welfare of
greece to declare and carry on war
to decide in the last resort all
controversies between the members
to find the aggressing party to employ
the whole force of the confederacy
against the disobedient
to admit new members the amphitheans
were the guardians of religion
and of the immense riches belonging to
the temple of delphos where they had the
right of jurisdiction and controversies
between the inhabitants and those who
came to consult the oracle
as a further provision for the efficacy
of the federal powers
they took an oath mutually to defend and
protect the united cities
to punish the violators of this oath and
to inflict vengeance on sacrilegious
despoilers of the temple
in theory and upon paper this apparatus
of power
seems amply sufficient for all general
purposes
in several material instances they
exceed the powers enumerated in the
articles of confederation
the amphitheons had in their hands the
superstition of the times
one of the principal engines by which
government was then maintained
they had a declared authority to use
coercion against refractory cities
and were bound by oath to exert this
authority on the necessary occasions
very different nevertheless was the
experiment from the theory the powers
like those of the present congress were
administered by deputies appointed
wholly by the cities in their political
capacities
and exercised over them in the same
capacities hence the weakness
the disorders and finally the
destruction of the confederacy
the more powerful members instead of
being kept in awe and subordination
tyrannized successively over all the
rest athens as we learned from
demosthenes was the arbiter of greece
73 years the lacedomonians next governed
it 29
years at a subsequent battle after the
battle of laotra the thebans had their
turn of domination
it happened but too often according to
plutarch that the deputies of the
strongest cities awed and corrupted
those of the weaker
and that judgment went in favor of the
most powerful party
even in the midst of defensive and
dangerous wars with persia and macedon
the members never acted in concert and
were more or fewer of them
eternally the dupes or the hirelings of
the common enemy
the intervals of foreign war were filled
up by domestic vicissitudes convulsions
and carnage
after the conclusion of the war with
xerxes it appears that the lacedemonians
required that a number of the cities
should be turned out of the confederacy
for the unfaithful part they had acted
the athenians finding that the
lacedemonians would lose fewer partisans
by such a measure than themselves
and would become masters of the public
deliberations vigorously opposed and
defeated the attempt
this piece of history proves at once the
inefficiency of the union
the ambition and jealousy of its most
powerful members and the dependent and
degraded condition of the rest
the smaller members though entitled by
the theory of their system to revolve in
equal pride and majesty around the
common center had become in fact
satellites of the orbs of primary
magnitude
had the greeks says the abimelo in as
wise as they were courageous
they would have been admonished by
experience of the necessity of a closer
union
and would have availed themselves of the
peace which followed their success
against the persian arms to establish
such a reformation
instead of this obvious policy athens
and sparta inflated with the victories
and the glory they had acquired
became first rivals and then enemies and
did each other infinitely more mischief
than they had suffered from xerxes
their mutual jealousies fears hatreds
and injuries ended in the celebrated
peloponnesian war which itself ended in
the ruin and slavery of the athenians
who had begun it
as a weak government when not at war is
ever agitated by internal dissensions
so these never fail to bring on fresh
calamities from abroad
the photians having plowed up some
consecrated ground belonging to the
temple of apollo the amphitheanic
council
according to the superstition of the age
imposed a fine on the sacrilegious
offenders
the focians being abetted by athens and
sparta refused to submit to the decree
the thebans with others of the cities
undertook to maintain the authority of
the amphitheans and to avenge the
violated god
the latter being the weaker party
invited the assistance of philip of
macedon who had secretly fostered the
contest
philip gladly seized the opportunity of
executing the designs he had long
planned against the liberties of greece
by his intrigues and bribes he won over
to his interests the popular leaders of
several cities
by their influence and votes gained
admission into the amvictionic council
and by his arts and his arms made
himself master of the confederacy
such were the consequences of the
fallacious principle on which this
interesting establishment was founded
had greece says a judicious observer on
her fate been united by a stricter
confederation and persevered in her
union
she would never have worn the chains of
macedon and might have proved a barrier
to the vast projects of rome
the aquian league as it is called was
another society of grecian republics
which supplies us with valuable
instruction
the union here was far more intimate and
its organization much wiser than in
preceding instance
it will accordingly appear that though
not exempt from a similar catastrophe
it by no means equally deserved it the
cities composing this league retained
their municipal jurisdiction
appointed their own officers and enjoyed
a perfect equality
the senate in which they were
represented had the sole and exclusive
right of peace and war
of sending and receiving ambassadors of
entering into treaties and alliances
of appointing a chief magistrate or
praetor as he was called who commanded
their armies and who with
the advice and consent of ten of the
senators not only administered the
government in the recess of the state
but had a great share in its
deliberations when assembled
according to the primitive constitution
there were two praetors associated in
the administration but on trial a single
one was preferred it appears that the
cities had all the same laws and customs
the same weights and measures and the
same money but how far this effect
proceeded from the authority of the
federal council is left in uncertainty
it is said only that the cities were in
a manner compelled to receive the same
laws and usages
when lasseterman was brought into the
league by philippan it was attended with
an abolition of the institutions and
laws of lyquircus
and an adoption of those of the achaeans
the amphitheanic confederacy of which
she had been a member
left her in the full exercise of her
government and her legislation
this circumstance alone proves a very
material difference in the genius of the
two systems
it is much to be regretted that such
imperfect monuments remain of this
curious political fabric
could its interior structure and regular
operation be ascertained
it is probable that more light would be
thrown by it on the science of federal
government
than by any of the like experiments with
which we are acquainted
one important fact seems to be witnessed
by all the historians who take notice of
akian affairs
it is that as well after the renovation
of the league by erratus
as before its dissolution by the arts of
macedon there was infinitely more of
moderation and justice in the
administration of its government
and less of violence and sedition in the
people than were to be found in any of
the cities exercising
singly all the prerogatives of
sovereignty the abimebli in his
observations on greece
says that the popular government which
was so tempestuous elsewhere
caused no disorders in the members of
the aquian republic because it was there
tempered by the general authority and
laws of the confederacy
we are not to conclude too hastily
however that faction did not in a
certain degree agitate the particular
cities much less that a due
subordination and harmony reigned in the
general system
the contrary is sufficiently displayed
in the vicissitudes and fate of the
republic
whilst the amphitheanic confederacy
remained that of the achaeans which
comprehended the less important cities
only made little figure on the theater
of greece
when the former became a victim to
macedon the latter was spared by the
policy of philip and alexander
under the successors of these princes
however a different policy prevailed the
arts of division were practiced among
the achaeans
each city was seduced into a separate
interest the union was dissolved
some of the cities fell under the
tyranny of macedonian garrisons
others under that of usurpers springing
out of their own confusions
shame and oppression air long awakened
their love of liberty
a few cities reunited their example was
followed by others as opportunities were
found of cutting off their tyrants
the league soon embraced almost the
whole peloponnesis macedon saw its
progress but was hindered by internal
dissensions from stopping it
all grease caught the enthusiasm and
seemed ready to unite in one confederacy
when the jealousy and envy in sparta and
athens of the rising glory of the
achaeans threw a fatal damp on the
enterprise
the dread of the macedonian power
induced the league to court the alliance
of the kings of egypt and syria who
as successors of alexander were rivals
of the king of macedon
this policy was defeated by cleomenes
king of sparta
who was led by his ambition to make an
unprovoked attack on his neighbors the
achaeans
and who as an enemy to macedon had
interest enough with the egyptian and
syrian princes
to effect a breach of their engagements
with the league
the achaeans were now reduced to the
dilemma of submitting to cleomenes
or of supplicating the aid of macedon
its former oppressor
the latter expedient was adopted the
contest of the greeks always afforded a
pleasing opportunity to that powerful
neighbor
of intermeddling in their affairs a
macedonian army quickly appeared
cleomenes was vanquished the aquian soon
experienced as often happens
that a victorious and powerful ally is
but another name for a master
all that their most abject compliances
could obtain from him was a toleration
of the exercise of their laws
philip who is now on the throne of
macedon soon provoked by his tyrannies
fresh combinations among the greeks
the achaeans the weakened by internal
dissensions and by the revolt of messeni
one of its members being joined by the
attolians and athenians
erected the standard of opposition
finding themselves
though thus supported unequal to the
undertaking they once more had recourse
to the dangerous expedient of
introducing the sucker of foreign arms
the romans to whom the invitation was
made eagerly embraced it
philip was conquered macedon subdued a
new crisis ensued to the league
dissensions broke out among its members
these the romans fostered
calligraphies and other popular leaders
became mercenary instruments for
unveiling their countrymen the more
effectively to nourish discord and
disorder the romans had to the
astonishment of those who confided in
their sincerity
already proclaimed universal liberty
this was but another name more species
for the independence of the members on
the federal head
throughout greece with the same
insidious views
they now seduce the members from the
league by representing to their pride
the violation it committed on their
sovereignty
by these arts this union the last hope
of greece the last hope of ancient
liberty
was torn into pieces and such imbecility
and distraction introduced that the arms
of rome found little difficulty in
completing the ruin which their arts had
commenced
the achaeans were cut to pieces and a
kia loaded with chains under which it is
groaning at this hour
i have thought it not superfluous to
give the outlines of this important
portion of history
both because it teaches more than one
lesson and because as a supplement to
the outlines of the aquian constitution
it emphatically illustrates the tendency
of federal bodies
rather to anarchy among the members than
to tyranny in the head
publius